Add overview dev portal page (#2181)
giantswarm/docs: src/content/overview/developer-portal/_index.md

  principal:
    parent: overview
    identifier: overview-developer-portal
last_review_date: 2024-06-11
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-product
---

> The Giant Swarm Developer Portal is the central self-service portal for your platform engineers and developers. It provides access to all the tools and resources needed to manage and develop applications on your Giant Swarm platform.

Reviewer: might need a coming soon?

> The Giant Swarm Developer Portal is the central self-service portal for your platform engineers and developers. It provides access to all the tools and resources needed to manage and develop applications on your Giant Swarm platform.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Giant Swarm Developer Portal is your all-in-one self-service hub, empowering platform engineers and developers to efficiently manage and build applications on your Giant Swarm platform. It provides seamless access to all the essential tools and resources needed for a streamlined development experience.
```

> Giant Swarm uses [Backstage](https://www.cncf.io/projects/backstage/) as the foundation for the developer portal. Backstage is an open-source platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified view of all your software development tools and services, navigate across the documentation even creating custom plugins to integrate with your existing tools.

Reviewer 2: Maybe mention that it is open-source like everything else in our platform. Btw I took a look and we don't have any web or docs page explaining that our product is fully open source and there is no commercial license for it. Imo this would be good to have and then link to from pages like this.

> Giant Swarm uses [Backstage](https://www.cncf.io/projects/backstage/) as the foundation for the developer portal. Backstage is an open-source platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified view of all your software development tools and services, navigate across the documentation even creating custom plugins to integrate with your existing tools.

Author: > Btw I took a look and we don't have any web or docs page explaining that our product is fully open source and there is no commercial license for it

IMO, the [intro page](https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/blob/main/src/content/overview/introduction/_index.md) is the perfect spot where to add it. I do an addition to it

> Giant Swarm uses [Backstage](https://www.cncf.io/projects/backstage/) as the foundation for the developer portal. Backstage is an open-source platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified view of all your software development tools and services, navigate across the documentation even creating custom plugins to integrate with your existing tools.

Author: https://github.com/giantswarm/docs/pull/2232

## Managed capabilities

The Developer Portal provides the following features:

- **Service catalog**: a catalog of all the services available on your platform, including documentation, metrics, and other information.

> - **Application management**: the ability to create golden paths or template to boost the application development process and the same time you can observe the status of your applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Application management**: the ability to create golden paths or templates to boost the application development process and the same time enable you to observe the status of your applications.
```

Reviewer: I'd like to also add sth that is not directly application related, but we see often times a use case within end users:
Basically, it's about the platform teams offering (and in turn developers consuming) self-service utilization of certain environments and common services and (cloud) resources, typically:
- Request a new environment/namespace for your team/project
- Request a managed DB for your project
...

Maybe that needs to be a separate point. WDYT?

- **Documentation**: A central location for all your platform documentation, including guides, tutorials, and API references.
- **Metrics and monitoring**: basic metrics and monitoring capabilities for your applications and connection to extended monitoring tools.
- **Alerts and notifications**: define alerts and notifications for your applications and services in a common place.

## Cloud-native applications

> In Giant Swarm we have been working hard to make Backstage run in our managed clusters to provide a central place for the platform. We are still working on how to integrate with the customer applications and services more and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Giant Swarm, we've been diligently working to provide Backstage as a portal to our managed clusters, with the aim of creating a centralized platform hub. We're continuing to enhance Backstage's integration with our customers' applications and services.
```

> Our belief is Backstage will grow in next years enabling more use cases so we invite you to collaborate with us to find those.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We believe Backstage is poised for significant growth and expansion in the coming years. We invite you to collaborate with us to explore and unlock its full potential.
```

  principal:
    parent: overview
    identifier: overview-developer-portal
last_review_date: 2024-06-11
owner:
  - https://github.com/orgs/giantswarm/teams/sig-product
---

> The Giant Swarm Developer Portal is your all-in-one self-service hub, empowering platform engineers and developers to efficiently manage and build applications on your Giant Swarm platform. It provides seamless access to all the essential tools and resources needed for a streamlined development experience.

Author: ```suggestion
The Giant Swarm developer portal is your all-in-one self-service hub, empowering platform engineers and developers to efficiently manage and build applications on your Giant Swarm platform. It provides seamless access to all the essential tools and resources for a streamlined development experience.
```

Giant Swarm uses [Backstage](https://www.cncf.io/projects/backstage/) as the foundation for the developer portal. Backstage is an open-source platform for building developer portals. It provides a unified view of all your software development tools and services, navigate across the documentation even creating custom plugins to integrate with your existing tools.

## Managed capabilities

The Developer Portal provides the following features:

- **Service catalog**: a catalog of all the services available on your platform, including documentation, metrics, and other information.
- **Application management**: the ability to create golden paths or templates to boost the application development process and the same time enable you to observe the status of your applications.

> - **Environment provision**: as a platform owner, you can create environment templates with policies, permissions, or external cloud resources attached, ready for your developers to use.

Author: @puja108 WDYT?

Reviewer: minor suggestion below, otherwise LGTM

> - **Environment provision**: as a platform owner, you can create environment templates with policies, permissions, or external cloud resources attached, ready for your developers to use.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Environment provisioning**: as a platform owner, you can create environment templates with policies, permissions, or external cloud resources attached, ready for your developers to use.
```
